Charging

{The idea that a small unit 1" off to the side of a monster cannot be attacked by the monster is ludicrous. The monster should be able to step over that 1" and eat it. No, it won't count as charging. Does it need to charge to eat that bloody eagle?}

I still think Charging should be the way to get into combat, However maybe give allowances to pivot. That way any individual model can pivot on the spot. Any unit with ranks can still only pivot/wheel + move no more than their total movement/march.
{(And a single infantry model should not be able to cause heavy cavalry - or worse, monstrous cavalry - to stop mid-charge. They should ride right over him and grind him into paste.}

maybe charging cavalry get killing blow against individual units? CE has killing blow as 1 wound with no armour save allowed. Instead of outright killing. I think when it’s heavy cavalry with 6 attacks, that’s reasonable.

{Counter-charging as a charge option? Historically, it was very rare indeed for a heavy cavalry unit to charge another heavy cavalry unit head-on and catch it standing still. It was very common for the two units to charge each other. Say, the charged unit counter-charges its movement rate (or 1/2 the distance between the two units, whichever is less) straight ahead, and then the charging unit now has that much less distance it needs to cover on it's charge.
Of course, this could draw a heavy cav unit out where it could be flanked.  Again, a fairly common occurrence historically.}

I like it! Especially if we’re keep to initiative attack order.
If it’s impact hits then impact hits x2 in combat when countercharge is done.
(For example a chariot being countercharged by anything else, chariot gets x2 impact hits.)
But I’d only permit a charge reaction against only enemies charging your front rank.




{Heavy Cavalry kind of lost it's role with the advent of Monstrous Cavalry and Steadfast. They need some help. Perhaps an impact hit on the charge against infantry and cavalry. Historically, heavy cavalry would often literally bowl over opponents on the charge; impact hits would simulate that quite well.}

Agreed. Maybe this: per cavalry model on the charge, add +2 Strength and d3 impact hits. Where impact hits are also resolved at +2 strength.






melee

{Can take only on save (either armor, ward or regenaration), must use the best one}
I like having multiple saves. After all, there’s a chance of success with even a reduced armour save.
You shouldn’t change or remove a rule that only fails with the statistical outliars like overpowered characters.
Modifying killing blow/heroic killing blow, or adding penalties when rank and file attack a single character. That should situationally specific and solve the problem.

Close Combat
This is were I would do the most changes. I think that we have 2 real problems right now.

a.) Core rank and file infantry
It is only used as a carry for characters or to provide huge masses of steadfast lifepoints. The core infantry (which should be the backbone of an army) does need to get a real role in fighting the battle.

To give core infantry which cannot rely on special rules a real part in combat I strongly advice to change the basic weapon rules. The regular troops should function on the basic principle that they are good in a certain aspect and very mediocre in all others (because they are only regular troopers and not elite infantry). If you want to make core infantry a real force you need to improve their gear.

Now only weapons are desirable that directly change combat stats - mainly upping the strength - other weapons are not desirable. What does fighting out of an additional rank provide if those attacks are completely useless? Spears should be a weapon against cav (and probably monstrous stuff), HW&shield the "blocker" setup. The other weapons don't need a change in my opinion because they already directly influence combat stats upping attacks / strength.


{My one thought about close combat is that units engaged with each other should always be able to attack each other regardless of the presence of characters in the front rank. Combat swirls around too much for a wall of heavy hitters in front to make the unit behind them immune to harm.}

I don’t know what that is supposed to mean, but from the start I never understood why people can’t simply just attack characters in the front rank? But if people are putting expensive hard to kill characters in front rank, i understand that.

Then the solution would be something like, no more than 2 characters per front rank. Or 4 characters per front rank in a horde formation. Something like that?


Combat:

CR scored from kiling models based on a ratio of how many models you killed. So if I kill twice as many models I get +2
Change the models for ranks

Infantry 5
Cavalry 4
MI and models on 40m 3

Limit the horde formation to weaker units (generally weak core units), as such Horde would be listed in its special rules.

Supporting attacks would be half the models attacks round up.

{I'd probably change rerolls to hit on ASF as some kind of defensive bonus. main issue with ASF is it makes hatred a poor mans version of ASF}

Well. I didn’t particularly have a problem with it, since I thought elves were fairly weak. But that was in the 7th edition when charging strikes first, and if you killed a whole front rank you got no attacks back.
So if killing a whole front rank doesn’t remove a rank of attacks, then ASF for elves, or in general loses the main problem that it was a solution to in my eyes.

Maybe, instead of rerolling failed hits for ASF. We can change it to ASF and +1 to hit always. Remove the “if initiative is the same or higher”

Alternatively make ASF: Always strikes first;  +2 to hit if initiative is higher than target models.



{With steadfast it change it so flanking units rank bonus is added when calculating is a unit is steadfast, its a tad a silly a unit of with ranks can be steadfast when engaged by two units of 40 guys with 3 ranks each, its that or base it on unit strength.}

I agree. Maybe on that front, we can keep steadfast as (whatever side) having a higher number of complete ranks after the first and not being disrupted. For man sized models, a complete rank is 5.

So a unit of 20 in 5x4 is 3 complete ranks. A horde of 20 is 2 complete ranks. A horde of 30 is 4 complete ranks.
Just maybe separate calculating steadfast separately from calculating rank bonuses and leadership based tests.

if we did it the other way and combined the 2 units into 1 for the purposes of calculating ranks and steadfast, I think it’d get more complicated quicker when you try to work out separate units being combined on some tests and separate on others. Therefore for man sized infantry “a complete rank is 5” we can sort that into horde and non horde ranks easily.

The only difficulty with this solution is if we change horde to something like “in melee more models per rank compared to enemy unit”
Can we do it that way, or something similar? Just remember to keep it simple so a 12 yr old can learn it easy.
We’re not trying to limit these games to only 12 yr olds obviously, but it does make remembering them easy when it’s lots of simple things instead of a few complicated things.



Close Combat
Weapons should give initiative bonus. Spear or halberd+1, lance +2 and you should get an initiative bonus for charging.
Charge should be 2d3 for infantry (also for pursuit, fleeing unit, etc) and 2d6 for swiftstride
Fear could double the result by which you win to modify the leadership test


