
Magic... Now we come to the killer issue.

Right now certain spells (we all know which ones they are) are over the top. Miscasts matched up with irresistible force means 6-dicing spells is a viable (although cheesy) tactic. There are a couple of fixes.

1) Nerf the uberspells. Allowing MR/ward saves and/or LOS saves is the most common one.

2) Rejigger the miscast chart, and make the roll 1d6+PD. So you get a range from 3 (you can't miscast on 1 PD) to 12. 3 is minor, 12 is pretty much 'autodie', 7 somewhere in between.

3) I don't remember the killer spells being all that different in earlier editions... so perhaps the answer is a return to the earlier miscast/IF dynamic? Double sixes is IF, double ones miscasts.... and overrides IF.

4) Just eliminate IF entirely, and allow the opponent a chance to dispel, period.

Playtest away, guys!

Magic items:

Crown of Command is too powerful. Beyond that... I don't see much issue with the BRB items. Many of the AB items need reworking, but that's for other threads to discuss.

My $.02.

Pursuits/flees should be done perpendicular to the battleline like in 6th and 7th. Center to center is garbage, it creates a quadrillion anomalies and currently requires a long wp chapter with multiple images to explain. Pursuit going center to center is so absurd that to this day great many people have not learned to play with it.

I will take the time to summarize the input so far generated by me on the Swedish board that everyone has the same information when discussing this project. I will go by game phases and will refer to army book aspects that have to be accounted for if the basic rules change. I won't bother going into detail regarding the implementation of the ETC FAQ because everyone interested is able to download and read it 


When rolling for IF and Miscast. Maybe 1’s for miscast, and 6’s for IF/overwhelming force.
If there’s more 6’s than 1’s IF/overwhelming force
If there’s more 1’s than 6’s Miscast.
Make the Miscast punishment based on how many 1’s are rolled in total?



Magic
I really do like your approach regarding the magic phase and don't want to interfere much in this area because I think you already got it right  Nevertheless I really would like to make a proposal regarding the lores:

[*]Each lore should contain 3 good support spells that have real impact in close combat

One the one hand this would be in line with making the charge more important because the charging player would have a magic phase before the first round of combat and the appropriate tools to support his units with each of the lores. On the other hand this would make mediocre troops (core infantry) a relevant choice because they could be buffed reliably.


Each mage has his own Power and Dispel dice;
Each mage can cast and dispel one spell per phase (models with ranged weapond may use only one per phase so it looks logic casters should do the same);
Magic lores tuned back like 7th edition;


Magic:

Removal of instant death spells
Go back to double 1 miscast, double 6 total power/irresistible.
Rather than adding your level to casting value simply have a +1 if you have a higher level and +2 if they have no wizard (or dispelling a bound item)
Change lore attributes that that penalize you for playing a certain army (I'm looking at you lore of light)
MR needs to be changed, something like when the unit is targeted by a spell add D6+lvl to your attempt.

Magic:
A mage can use up to his level plus 2 dices to cast a spell. This should limit ''mage bomb''.
A mage can choose his spell but the level of spell he can choose is his level + 2. So a mage l.1 can only chose the default spell and spells 1, 2 and 3.
Misscast should worst if you use more dices, for example, if you miscast, roll two dices and add the number of dices you used, the higher you get the worst it get.


Miscast Table
Apply the result in this table according to the number of Power Dice used for the casting roll resulting in a miscast.

[*]2 dice
Wizard suffers from Lost Focus
[*]3 dice
Centre the 3" template over the caster. All model touched by the template suffers a strength 5 hit. The caster may not use the Look Out Sir! Rule or any kind of saves against this template.
[*]4 dice
Centre the 5" template over the caster. All model touched by the template suffers a strength 10 hit. The caster may not use the Look Out Sir! Rule or any kind of saves against this template. The caster’s wizard level is decreased by 1, and he loses the spell that was miscast.
[*]5 dice
Apply the results as if 4 dice were used. Then, roll a D6
1-3 The caster is removed from the game and counts as a casualty
4-6 The caster’s wizard level is decreased by 1, and he loses the spell that was miscast.

I really don't like the instantly death verdict if a wizards miscasts with 4 dice - make it a severe punishment but the current ruling is too harsh - even more so now because irresistible force is not "irresistible" anymore.


Lores

First I have to say that I think Warhammer needs (a lot!) more buff/debuff spells. They are a tactical element that make the game more interesting and makes otherwise useless or subpaar troops playable.

Battle Magic: Lore of Beasts
I really like this lore - the frenzy augment spell and the lore attribute feel very beast-like. The only spell that really needs a change is the 4th spell:

[*]The Beast Cowers
If target unit consist solely of Warbeasts, Cavalry, Monstrous Beasts, Monstrous Cavalry, Chariots, Monsters and/or Swarm; pivot target unit.

This spell just feels out of line with the warhammer lores - directly influencing an enemies movement is very problematic. I would suggest to remove this spell. In its place you could include another augment / hex or something like "mounts attack their unit" (like the old Tzeentch spell which caused an unit to hit itself - could be called "The beast within").

Furthermore I think the 6th spell should get a defensive mode as well (something that buffs toughness).

Battle Magic: Lore of Death
Unfortunately this lore seems unbalanced.

[*]Life Drain (lore attribute)
Target suffers 1 wound with no armour save allowed. If a wound is dealt, the caster recovers 1 wound.
One the one hand the lore attribute is very powerful but has only 12" and will therefore only apply in rare cases. A lore attribute should be found that is not "all or nothing" - a minor flavourful buff. My suggestion is to remove it and rework it entirely. A possible approach could be to rework the lore this way:

Quote:
suggested reworked lore of death

[*]lore attribute: Doom and Darkness
An enemy unit affected by a spell out of the Lore of Death suffers a -1 Leadership hex until the start of the caster's next magic phase.

[0]The Dreadknight 6+ 18" hex
The target suffers -1 to hit in close combat and shooting until the start of the caster's next magic phase.

[1]The Caress of Laniph 7+ 12" / 10+ 24" focused direct damage hex
2D6 hits, which wound on 4+, no armour saves.

[2]Spirit Leech 8+ 12" / 11+ 24" focused direct damage hex
Both caster and target roll 1D6 and add their current Ld. If the caster’s total is higher, the target suffers a number of wounds with no armour save equal to the difference between their respective total.

[3]Soulblight 24" 7+ only S / 11+ S & T hex
Target has -1 Strength (and -1 Toughness).

[4]Endless Terror 24" hex 10+
The target unit may not benefit from "Hold your Ground" and "Inspiring Presence"

[5] Touch of the Reaper 11+ killing blow / 15+ heroic killing blow
Target has the Killing Blow/Heroic Killing Blow and Immune to Psychology special rule.

[6] Purple sun of Xereus 15"+ Vortex (3) Ground, Direct
1” template. Models touched by the template must pass an Initiate-test (where rolls of 1 and 2 always counts as successful tests, even for models that auto-fail test) or suffer a wound with Multiple Wounds (10) special rule. No armour or Regeneration saves allowed.


Death should be a lore focused on single damage (with the exception of the Vortex) and debuff. The suggested lore attribute is very synergistic with the rest of the lore and never useless. This way the lore is focused around debuffing the opponent while maintaining the sniper subtheme.

Battle Magic: Lore of Fire
This lore needs some slight tuning as well - it seems a little underpowered compared to the other lores. Suggested changes:

*Flaming Sword of Rhuin:
It should be +1 to wound and not to hit (like it is in the BRB) - I would like to see the possibility to enhance this for an additional bonus (like +1 to hit).

*Cascading Fire: Does the lore attribute trigger in the following rounds? If not the strength should be increased to 4

*Burning Head: Each unit suffering an unsaved wound should make a panic test (like before)

*Conflagration of Doom: I would rework this spell the following way to bring it in line with the other good 6th spells...

[6] Conflagration of Doom 12+ S4 / 18+ S5 36" hex direct damage
Target suffers S4 / S5 flaming hits. For each unsaved wound (excluding the lore attribute) the target suffers additional S4/5 flaming hits - repeat this process until no wounds were caused.

Regular version against T4 dudes without saves:
3D6 hits = 10,5 on average wounding on 3+ = 5,25 wounds
5,25 additional hits = 2,625 wounds
2,625 additional hits = 1 wound (approx)

=approx. 8-9 wounds excluding armour / MR / ward saves

Buffed up version against T4 dudes without saves:
3D6 hits = 10,5 on average wounding on 3+ = 7 wounds
7 additional hits = 2,6 wounds
2,6 additional hits = 1 wound (approx)

=approx. 10-11 wounds if the target has no save whatsoever for a 18+ casting cost spell sounds in line with the rest of the magic lores. It is very bad against high armoured targets (which is the flavour of fire) but very good against masses of cheap low toughness units.

Battle Magic: Lore of Heavens
I have to say - OH MY GOD! This is just such an flavourful example how things are done right. I like the power level, I like the spells and the lore attribute as well! The only changes I would suggest are:

*buffed up versions of harmonic convergence / curse of the midnight wind should have higher range (like you did it) and in addition a second effect out of the 3 possible ones.

Battle Magic: Lore of Life
This lore is (obv.) very close to what it was before (which I like). I would recommend ome minor changes :

*Spirit of the Woods: This is a very flavourful spell - I highly recommend changing its rules though:

[5]Spirit of the Woods 12+ 18" augment or hex
Range for this spell can be measured from the caster or any forest on the table. All models in target unit are considered to be within a Forest. If this spell was cast as an augment the unit gains the "poison" special rule (Throne of Vines bonus: wound automatically on 5+ and 6+), if this spell was cast as a hex the target suffers D6 S4 hits (Throne of Vines bonus: 2D6 S4 hits).


Battle Magic: Lore of Light
The lore of light seems to be fitting in - I do have a problem with the lore attribute though. Handing out 6+ ward saves seems underwhelming. I would make it a pendant to the suggested death lore attribute:

[*] lore attribute: feat of valour
For each successfully cast spell from the lore of light target friendly unit within 18" or the targeted unit receives a +1LD bonus until the next casters magic phase (to a maximum of 10).

This would be in line with the whole honour, battle tactics and forces of light theme.

Battle Magic: Lore of Metal
This lore fights a close battle with the lore of heaven about which is the best designed lore flavour-wise. Please implement these spells as they are - I would change nothing.

Battle Magic: Lore of Shadow
Shadow was one of the most common lores because it provided massive utility for the own troops. Please keep the spirit of this lore and bring back Enfeebling Foe (the -D3 strength spell). This is a major issue, don't cut down on very good supportive spells!

Besides the raised issue I would recommend changing the lore attribute. Again this attribute is very situational - sometimes very powerful and many other times just useless. Don't implement such random elements - out of a game designer perspective either the opposing player or the user will have the feeling that this attribute is one-sided. Give them an attribute like the lore of metal has (probably an initiative buff) - a buff that doesn't only effect character models and is useful in every stage of the game.


To sum it up...
Your magic phase rules (including lores) look really good even in this early stage of the project. There are some balancing issues with the lores (internal and external) and I have given you extensive feedback on the major problems I see. To close this feedback post I want to give you two points to consider:

First: The magic phase should be a phase that is used to support the own troops. Fixing "game winning spells" is just one side of the coin - the other one is implementing good (read as: I actively want to cast this!) supportive spells in each (!) lore.

Second: Please fix the miscast table - wizards should not explode without a chance of surviving if they miscast on 5 dice. Irresistible Force got worse and this should be accounted in the miscast table as well.

As you know going through this amount of data and coming up with suggestions / conclusions / feedback is a very time consuming task. It would be a sign of good faith if you would return the favour and tell me what you / the committee members think about the raised points.





Purple sun
I'd suggest the only other big spell that needs the same treatment is Purple Sun - keying off Initiative makes it devastating against some armies whether they bring a deathstar or not, and the way it interacts with the lore attribute is just dirty. Changing the lore attribute for Death and making the Sun key off Toughness (if you kept it at all) would go a long way to fixing it.

