{Change LoS back to how it was in previous edition rather than this drawing sight from a model and arguing that you can some guys nipple. Go back to terrain being different levels and models being different levels for blocking LoS.}

I agree with some and disagree with the rest. Maybe if we measured individual models for range, but we measured to the middle of the target model if it’s a man sized unit.

introduce penalty to hit if it’s smaller than man sized?
Obviously, we add +1 to rolls if it’s bigger than man sized.
maybe, add+2 if it’s bigger than cavalry?
and +3 if it’s a dragon?
Something like that?
We would need to standardise the list of model sizes then so we had some kind of universal help for shooting and line of sight.

{There has been so much focus on the magic phase yet it is the shooting phase that is most wrongheaded. Shooting that avoids having to use the dreaded Ballistic Skill isn't just better, it is more accurate and utterly without skill; any of my parrots could be trained to say "10 from the back" to save me the effort. BS-based shooting is badly designed, underwhelming and almost universally overpriced; with Dark Elves and maybe Wood Elves, factors such as sheer volume of shots and/or super-powerful arrows can overcome the inherent awfulness of BS shooting, and with my high elves, it is the surprising combat power that is what allows them to function as a combo-unit/throwaway. To be clear though: it is the ridiculous accuracy and lack of care in Non-BS based shooting which is the far bigger problem. At the very least, a player should have to nominate a particular number of inches, and perhaps guessing should just be brought back.}

Your right, that archers really are only effective if there’s lots of them. I’d like to think we can change shooting a bit.
For warmachines, there’s a solution that when rolling scatter distance, you reduce it by the war machines BS.
I wonder if something similar can be done with regular shooting.

Maybe measuring from the middle of the unit, and scatter to the side -BS in distance?
The only problems there are for single line infantry.
Skirmishers and single models pose their own problems, but implementing a better solution for firing at rank and file units would certainly improve things.

