Warmachines

{Cannons. Why do muzzle-loading cannon have laser-guided accuracy? Simple fix is, once the aiming point is established, roll a d6 minus the crew's BS and the scatter die to determine where the ball actually hits the ground. The cannonball then rolls the bounce from there, in a direct line away from the cannon. It should still hit monsters and big units reliably... but not be able to snipe solo characters very often.}

For the sake of misfiring, I’d use artillery dice instead of scatter dice. However BS skill to reduce scatter distance is a brilliant idea.

{My take on Cannons since i' ve been giving it a lot of thought.
Taking away d6 wounds makes monsters dominate. Leaving them as are, makes monsters extinct.
My take? Include scatter.
The first point of cannon balls impact should be adjusted via scatter dice minus crew ballistic skill. So through a bad scatter, even an arachnarok could escape a cannon shot.
So, assuming that the average scatter is 6-8 (transforming into 3 - 5 after application of an average BS) a monster is relatively safe from a frontal cannon shot (well a hit is a hit!). While is almost auto hit if the cannon is positioned in the flank (meaning the monster is practically off guard). This could explain the monster flying and maneuvering making it extremely difficult to hit with a frontal shot.}
                                            
{I've said this in other places and for a while, but I've always liked the idea of cannons doing D3 wounds and having Heroic Killing Blow. Uses a rule that is mostly overlooked, keeps their ability to kill anything, and reduces the impact of them on the game in a very simple way.

I'd still have Stone Throwers doing D6, as they are harder to hit individual models with the centre anyway.}

{HKB on cannonballs is an interesting idea but is not very good for regenerating monsters (Mortis engine,HPA,strigoi on terrorgheist,hydra (if got back normal regen) etc) or save-less monsters with high number of wounds (arachnarok,steam tank etc)

ok it's just 1/6 chance but if you are lucky you can do auto 10 wounds on a steam tank or kill a mortis engine in 1 shot without any chance for your opponent to save it or healing the model....}

{maybe you could do 2D3 wounds of D3+2 wounds on a roll of 6

or peraps a differenti number of multiple wounds related to the wound roll
1)not wounded
2-3)multiple wounds (D3)
4-5)multiple wounds (D3+1)
6)multiple wounds (2D3) or (D3+2)}




[*]canon balls do S10 / D6 wounds on the model they land on - the bounce is done with S6 / D3 wounds

The reasoning behind this proposal was that players want to strengthen monsters and that canons are very low skill tools. As I stated before I don't see a pressing problem with canons but would be fine to support this approach if the majority of the committee wants it.

Proposed changes:
[*]Spears (on foot): Killing Blow against cavalary if fighting them in the front arc
[*]HW&S (on foot): 5+ parry save

Each weapon type would have their distinct purpose - the bonuses for HW&shield and spears only apply in the front arc, this does reward good positioning as well.

(Note: Mark of Tzeentch should be completely reworked anyway - please assume that there is no improvement possible on this parry save; Furthermore skaven slaves shouldn't have a shield option - this would make the decision between clan rats and slaves a much more interesting one).

Warmachines cannot hit characters in 5+models units (they automatically hit random troop guy, no look out sir needed);
Cannons and ballistas negate armor save, Ballistas do D3 wounds, Cannons D3+1, great Cannons D3+2;
All War machines have Heroic KB special rule on shooting;
Gunpowder weapons negate regeneration as flaming weapons, but they are never considered fire attacks;



“Should roll to hit, why is it that a war machine made for shooting doesn't use BS? It could go something like that -> roll to hit as per usual rules but ignore cover as a canonball will just go straight througt it, apply longue range modifier, skirmish modifier, and lone infantry model modifier (-1 like skirmisher) If you hit, roll the artillery dice for the bounce and if you roll a missfire, it is an incident. Could do d3+1 wound instead of d6, still need the same roll to kill a lord level character, less random, cannot kill 5+ wounds model with one shot but can still crush a hero level character like it should.}



{Also, change the point cost or abilities of the skull canon and ogre canon, they are just stupidly too good for what they do! Skull canon should be strenght 6, d3 wounds, armour piercing, flaming attack and that still too good for a mere 135 points. With the same rule, the ogre canon should go up to 195 points.}

{I think it's worth considering making warmachines have a front shooting arc. That way they have to pivot and lose a turn if they are out of position. May be a simple way to fix cannons}

Can someone find a better solution to implementing this without counting pivoting as using up movement?
Although this solution might be acceptable.

